Good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's session.
Today's session is around using Excel.
If you've been coming to the previous
sessions,
you've seen so far that I've covered some
of the core basics prompting some of the
very beginnings of in app usage.
And we've had one deep dive session on
Word and today we're going to deep dive
into Excel and how to use Copilot.
You'll see some of the same themes as we
kind of use those same UIS and same
approaches towards Word as we do in Excel
and then down the road PowerPoint and
others.
But there are some some subtle
differences and I'm going to cover some
some other things as well.
So welcome to the group and let's dive
right in.
We've got about an hour to get through a
good amount of material.
So just some housekeeping things.
We do have cameras and microphones turned
off typically because there's a lot of
people on the call and we don't want
anybody talking over each other.
And we do have chat disabled.
However, we want your question.
So if you look in the top right corner,
there's a button that says Q&A.
We do have mediate or monitored questions
and answers.
I have a bunch of Microsoft people here
with me that can answer those questions
while I'm presenting.
So please feel free to post any of your
questions in the Q&A.
We get a lot of how do I get a license
questions.
We've posted an initial Q&A.
It's a rather long 1 and it addresses
licensing,
so please feel free to read that and and
look into that as well.
So, and if you still have questions,
put them in there.
We'll get those answered.
All right.
So some things I'd like to cover before I
get into the actual content itself is the
licensing discussion.
If you are curious whether you have a
license or not,
the way to tell is inside your Copilot
application here.
You can get to it through Teams.
You can get to it lots of different ways.
There's an app.
I usually just go to office.com,
login with your Salinas account and
you'll come to this landing page here and
you'll either have this work web toggle
at the top or you will have no work web
toggle at the top.
That is how you can tell if you have a
license or not.
If you do not have the work and web
toggle, then you do not have a license.
You are using the unlicensed version of
Copilot.
There's still goodness there,
but throughout the day or throughout the
next hour,
I'm going to be calling out like this
will work if you have a license.
This won't work if you don't have a
license.
That's how you tell.
You can also look in the bottom corner
here.
If it says Copilot chat basic,
then you do not have a license yet.
And if you have this copilot premium,
then you do have a license.
OK, And again, still goodness in both,
but I will call out when you have one
thing and and when you don't, right,
or when certain capabilities are there
and and certain ones aren't.
All right,
So that's the the licensing portion.
OK,
so let's dig in to some some Excel
goodness.
All right,
so we talked in Word about a couple
different ways to approach it and Excel
is no different.
There are lots of, you know,
Office is a rather large product and
there's lots of different ways to
interact with it.
As such,
there's lots of different Co pilots in
the suite of tools that makes up copilot
for M365 and copilot for M365 chat.
So it's a matter of kind of knowing which
tool's the right tool for the job,
when to approach it a certain way,
things like that,
'cause there are multiple ways to do
things,
and so we're gonna break those down.
So the four key ways that you can
interact with Copilot across, you know,
Excel files, the Excel tool itself,
things like that.
And we're going to dig into each one of
these, but we can do this through chat,
right?
That back and forth conversation.
And I'm going to show you some examples
of that and talk about when that's the
right tool for the job.
Then we've got the Excel agent.
This is an actual agent for Excel.
It's not in the Excel app.
It is an agent inside the chat experience
for working with Excel files.
And we'll talk about when's the right
thing for that.
Then we're going to talk about actually
opening Excel and using the Copilot that
is built into the Excel user experience,
right?
And that's called editing with Copilot
inside of Excel.
And then the last thing we're going to
cover is when you can leverage another
agent called analyst with your Excel
files to do some really advanced things.
So there's sort of these,
these different ways and different tools
that you can use to kind of get to what
you're typically doing with Excel, right.
And they, they all have their,
their purposes.
All right, that's it for slides.
I know that's unusual.
Microsoft usually hits you with a ton of
slides.
I, I don't like that.
I'd rather just show you the product.
So let's let's just jump into it.
So the first one that I was talking about
was the chat experience and that's this
right here, right?
So you can interact with Excel files
using the chat, right?
You can do it by by adding work content,
uploading individual Excel files.
This works even if you don't have a
license.
If you don't have a license,
you're going to want to, you know,
add work content and find the the Excel
file that you're looking for.
It should be in your OneDrive before you
try and use it right there it is.
But if you do have a license, then you,
you can just, you know, you don't have to,
to necessarily.
You could, you could ask for, you know,
help me find the Excel file that has the
last quarterly financials.
Because you have the work license,
it looks through all of SharePoint,
all of OneDrive.
So you have kind of that option of being
able to describe the kind of data you're
looking for and have it go out and get
that.
Whereas if you don't have a license,
you need to actually provide it with the
Excel file that you want it to look at.
However, once you've done that,
you've kind of corralled that data.
What you can do with it is relatively the
same, right Inside the experience.
So when do I use this?
This is for when you have an Excel file
and you just want to know information
about it, right?
You're not editing it,
you're not trying to look at a lot of the
visualizations or things that might be
inside the Excel file.
For that,
you typically would open the file, right?
And we'll talk about that when we get to
other modalities.
But if you're just like, if you,
I have an Excel file and I just want to
know some some facts about it or get some
information from it,
I can do that from chat.
I don't have to actually open the Excel
file, right?
So for instance,
I could go in here and I could say what
are the total sales by bike type using?
And then I'm,
if you know from the previous ones.
This is my demo environment.
It's a fictitious E bike company.
I don't use the Microsoft stuff because
sometimes it shows things it shouldn't.
So here I've got my E bike inventory
Excel file.
You can see I've got it open in another
tab,
but I'm just asking it some basic stuff,
right?
It,
it has that information inside the file,
so it can open up that file,
it can get that information and it can
answer my questions in a very kind of
natural language chat way.
So I don't want you to think that any
time you want to work with Excel files,
it means you have to go and open the file
in Excel and then open Copilot in Excel.
Like if you don't,
if you don't plan on editing or doing any
advanced features in Excel,
you just want answers from an Excel file
and they're kind of basic answers,
really straightforward stuff.
Then chat is perfectly capable of doing
that.
You can just add the file,
reference an Excel file,
ask it what you want.
You can see it actually had to do some
calculations.
These weren't actual fields inside the
file.
It actually wrote some code, right?
And it it did some some quick stuff to
generate this information and it gave it
to me.
And I can even get basic like graphs and
stuff.
I could say,
show that information in a pie chart,
right,
and have it build a pie chart for me with
that data.
And then I could take that and put it in
something else.
So again,
I'm doing sort of very straightforward
things,
but I'm doing it sort of in that flow of
my work.
And it's saying basically that a, that a,
here's a pie chart.
Oh, it's, it's still coding it.
So you can ask it for things.
And if it's, it's pretty straightforward,
chat's a good place to go.
But again,
this is if you're querying or getting
information about the document.
I would not try and make an edit to the
document from here.
I wouldn't try and tell it to highlight
fields or do condition like things inside
the application.
I need to be in the app for that.
This is for for querying about the data.
And that's sort of that first step to,
to getting at the Excel goodness,
because Copilot chat is is fairly
proficient at that, right?
It talks Excel perfectly fine for
querying data and understanding it.
Now what happens when I want to go to
that next step?
I will caution you.
You could theoretically create a new
spreadsheet from here.
I could say something like create an
Excel spreadsheet with sample data
typical of a sales a quarterly sales
document.
Like, I can do that,
but it's not gonna be great.
This is not a good tool for creation.
And the reason is because just like you
saw before,
it's gonna try and use Python for that.
And Python, while it will create it,
it's not gonna be very visually appealing.
It's literally just gonna be like a sheet
with a bunch of numbers and column
headers.
Like you can see it says it's utilizing
Python And Pandas and open π Excel to
populate this with sample data and
formulas.
It's not going to be great because Python
only does so much when it comes to
building itself files.
So what you want is something that's that
actually knows how to speak Excel.
It knows how to make good looking Excel.
It knows how to format things.
It knows how to break things down and
insert formulas and all that stuff
without having to resort to a fairly
primitive generic tool.
And So what we've done is we've created
this Excel agent, right?
Just like we did in Word.
You saw the example from the Word agent.
Now we have an Excel agent, right?
And if you don't have this Excel agent,
you can click on all agents here and
search for it and find it.
And you can see here it,
it basically created my data here.
Here's what's inside.
And then here's the Excel spreadsheet.
So here's what it created.
And let's go ahead and open that.
And I'll show you why I recommend not
doing it this way, right?
So we've created this one.
It's opening on my other monitor.
As soon as it's done, I'll bring it over.
So to get the Excel agent,
while that's opening, click new agent.
That will bring you to your agent store
eventually.
Give it a second.
All right, let's try this again.
Click on the agent store or I'm sorry,
I hit new agent, didn't I?
My fault.
Hit all agents.
You don't want to create a new agent.
It already exists.
Hit all agents that brings you to the
agent store and you can see here's the
agents that I've searched for in the past.
If you don't see it,
just start to type in Excel and it'll
find it.
And then when you click on it'll give you
the option to mine says open yours will
say add and then you can add it in.
Once you have it,
click on that agent and it takes you
right here to the Excel.
This is really for building and sort of
working with Excel, just like chat, chats,
a very straightforward, simple,
I'm in the flow of my work kind of
experience.
This is more I know I'm going to be
working with Excel.
I know I'm going to be creating an Excel.
This is a good tool for that.
And you have this even if you don't have
a license.
That's what makes this really important.
If you don't have a license,
this is still available for you.
OK.
And I can come in here and I can say the
same thing that I told the last one.
I can say create a sample sales quarterly,
quarterly report and off it goes.
Now here's what it created using chat,
right?
Not, not necessarily awesome,
Pretty straightforward.
It's got a little bit of detail.
So this is a little more helpful.
It's got some good regional breakdown.
So I mean, it's good sample data.
There's just not a lot to it.
It's very straightforward.
You'll see that that what this is going
to create is going to be much more
detailed and Rich, right?
Just the first thing that it does is it
asks for clarifying it questions.
The other one just kind of ran off and
did things right.
So this one's going to come back and it's
going to say things like what's the
primary purpose of this report?
This is a detailed sales analysis for
team review.
Which sales metrics are the most
important to include?
I need revenue,
I need customer acquisition and I need
year over year comparison.
What level of data give me comprehensive
with all metrics and go.
So already we're seeing that that it's
it's taking what I asked it to do and
because I didn't give it a great amount
of context, right,
which we talked about in prompting,
context is incredibly important.
Even in Excel, prompting is prompting.
It prompts me to say like hey,
I need some more context from you.
Like here's the stuff I need and those
weren't generic pre canned ones, right?
The fact that it asks questions about
things like sales reports and which are
the sales metrics.
If I had told it to build me a sample of,
you know,
8 of candidates for hiring from an HR
sort of scrape of our resume repository,
it would have asked different questions,
would have asked questions about like
what kinds of jobs is this for?
So it's,
it's asking me questions based on sort of
what it needs to build the report out
correctly.
It's not like a pre canned thing.
And then what it's going to do is it's
going to generate a fairly detailed Excel.
Now that's again, if I want to create,
I can still work with Excel.
I can still like upload an Excel to it
and I can say, you know,
help me understand what's going on in
this Excel or tell me what the best
selling bike this quarter was.
And then give me, you know,
a bar chart showing me, you know what,
how those sales played out over the year.
I can still interact with my files.
It's going to take, as you can see,
it takes longer than chat.
Chat is always going to be your most
performant because by its nature, it's,
it's a chat experience.
It's meant to get back to you fairly
quickly.
But that also means that it's bound by
the amount of time that it gets to answer
you.
So even when it's in deep sort of
thinking mode,
it's still trying to get back to you in a
fairly decent amount of time.
And so expect sort of high level answers,
expect quick answers to things that are
on the surface data that's right there.
But if it has to really dig in,
or in the case of creating and figuring
all that out,
it's not going to take very long.
It's going to come back quick.
But that's because the,
the quality is not super, super deep.
It's pretty high level.
Whereas this one is allowed to take a lot
more time.
You can see it's kind of going through
its thing.
It's taking much more time.
But what I get back is going to be much
better than the other one.
So again, it's,
it's doesn't make one better than the
other.
It's right tool for the job.
So I built it out this way so that you
could kind of see that spectrum of
capabilities, right?
Chat is going to be your quickest,
most basic, simple responses.
If you're going to get a little bit
deeper,
you want a little more information,
you want a little bit better formatting,
you're willing to take the time,
you want it to like kind of really reason
over the material.
Then your next step up is this Excel
agent,
right going into there telling it as you
can see, like we've been,
and it'll tell you, right?
Like this may take a while.
You can move away.
Like I'll let you know when I'm done.
Like you're not going to lose this.
It's still going to show up in your list,
but it went ahead and finished.
So now it's done.
Here's your stuff.
So it comes back with this,
it's got similar types of things, right?
Regional analysis,
but now it threw in some diagrams.
The other one didn't have any diagrams,
right?
It's product performance.
It's got some diagrams in it,
customer metrics,
and then like a nice high level executive
summary report.
So you can see better quality, right?
Similar data,
but one's very like here's the data,
throw it in the spreadsheet.
The other one is like, here's the data.
How would this actually look if it was
going to have summaries and be like,
like a real document that's been,
you know, manipulated by people and,
and things have been built out for it and
all of that stuff.
So it's going to take it to that next
level.
So it's kind of like basic,
medium and then, you know,
moving up the spectrum.
Now we're going to take a look at sort of
the next level.
So the next level is when I'm actually
going to go into Excel itself.
OK,
so now I'm now I'm actually saying I've
done what I want inside this chat.
I've kind of gone as far as I can go.
I've created some stuff,
I've asked questions about some stuff.
I'm trying to understand things,
but like I'm an Excel person and I want
to actually get into my Excel and I want
to start manipulating it.
Like I want to do things in Excel,
I want to create things in Excel,
I want to edit my Excel,
I want to work with the data.
Now I'm ready to start working.
That's like that next level up.
So this is where you're going to actually
be inside the Excel tool and you're going
to have this Copilot button right here
that launches Copilot.
Now a couple things to put out there.
While you may have access to this right
now without a license,
next week there's an update coming and
this is being removed.
So the only people who will have access
to this Copilot button inside of Excel
are people with a license.
So I want to be crystal clear about this.
If you do not have a license,
you can use the chat that I covered so
far.
And do all that kind of stuff.
You have access to the Excel agent and
you can have it create and summarize and
give you analysis and all the stuff I
showed there,
but that's as far as it goes.
You will not have access to this copilot
starting next week.
You would have to have a license and then
the next thing I'm going to show after
this again, you would need a license.
So like half of what I've shown.
So everything I've shown up till now
works if you have a license and if you
don't have a license, right?
The difference is whether you can just
ask for ask for information or whether
you have to actually provide it with the
Excel file.
If you have a license,
you can just ask it and it'll go find
stuff.
And if you don't have a license,
you have to provide the Excel file and be
like, I want to work with this.
However,
moving forward for the rest of the our
conversation today,
I'm assuming that that you have a license
because the tools I'm showing now require
that.
OK,
so once we come into Excel and we open up
Copilot, we have our file open right here.
You can see that it,
it kind of gave me this little pop up.
What it's talking about there is this
edit with Copilot mode.
OK, this is really important.
We talked about this in Word and I'm
going to cover it, you know,
each time we go through this,
but you have to see this little Excel
icon here and it says edit with Copilot.
If you don't see that,
if that's not there,
couple things you can notice is you have
the work web toggle at the top right.
It looks a little bit different.
Doesn't have that symbol right here.
It's just got this.
What this means is that you're in chat
mode.
This right here is the exact same thing
as this.
It is not empowered to like make changes
and update and do things to Excel.
So you don't want to be in this mode
unless you're asking generic questions,
right?
Like if there's a bunch of acronyms or
something and you're like,
I don't know what this acronym means or
how would I figure out what my profit
margin is or something like that.
You can ask this,
but if you're going to actually do things
in Excel,
you want to make sure that you're in edit
with Copilot mode.
And the way you get there if you're not
in it is if you hit this plus button,
it's right here.
And if you see some sliders or another
symbol next to the plus button and you
click on that,
sometimes it's there too because we're
rolling out that that change.
And depending on where you are in the
update cycle,
you might have it in two places.
So you want to hit this plus and you want
to hit edit with Copilot.
That is the most important thing.
When you see edit with Copilot up here in
the top left before the green shield and
you see the symbol that says editing with
Copilot, now you're set.
Now you can tell it what you want and it
will actually do the work inside of Excel.
You've kind of you've,
you've removed the friction between the
tool and the and the actual spreadsheet,
right?
The workbook.
So like for instance,
I can come in here and I can say
something like create a column for profit
margin.
Right now it's going to go and do that.
I chose profit margin for a reason
because I want to explain some things.
So when you're working with data in Excel,
couple things you need to think about.
OK, first of all is size.
It runs pretty,
pretty good until you get to around 1,000,
000 cells, not a million rows,
a million cells.
Once you get to about a million cells,
it starts to have a performance drop off.
Once you get to like 1.5 million cells,
that hockey sticks pretty hard,
like in terms of how long it takes to do
things.
And I wouldn't go past 2 million cells.
At that point.
You're going to be waiting for anything.
It's going to be almost unresponsive.
So the sweet spot is, is right around 1,
000,000 cells.
If you've got a bunch of files and you
know,
or you've got one file and it's got like
8 million cells,
just break it into 8 files.
You can still sort of work using the
agent and using some other tools that I'm
going to show you in a second.
You can still reference more than one
file at a time and say,
look across all of these files.
It's OK if the total is above,
it's just each individual file, right?
So if I were to break a 8,000,
000 cell file into 81 million cell files,
I could go into chat and I could say,
tell me what the total sales volume for
the quarter was for product X and then
linked to all eight of those files and it
would be the same as giving it one big 8
million, right?
It's just you've got to be mindful of
each individual file size because it can
slow things down.
All right,
So once I know that I've got a reasonable
amount of data,
the other thing that you have to think
about is, is, is my data well labeled?
Like you can see here I've got current
price, production cost,
things like that that are very clear to
read.
Now,
does that mean that you have to modify
your files if you've got acronyms that
are inside your organization or something?
Absolutely not.
But you do have to practice good
prompting and not assume that it knows
your acronyms, right?
So for instance,
here I said create profit margin.
It created a cell or a column called
profit Margin and it populated it and it
says here I added it.
Here's the column I added.
Here's the actual formula I used.
Current price minus production cost
divided by current price percentage with
decimal.
Here's the sample.
Here you go.
Now what would have happened if my
current price was listed as TLP total
list price?
This would have failed.
I would have told it to create a profit
margin and it would have come back and
said I don't have the data to do that.
And then I'd have been like,
but it's right there.
Well, right,
But it doesn't know the TLP stands for
Total List price.
Now, I can't change.
I could change this,
but maybe I don't want to.
Maybe that's just what we've always used.
And everybody, you know,
knows that that's what that acronym means.
And I don't need to change my data.
That's fine.
I could handle that two ways.
I could have gone in here and I could
have said, what data are you missing?
And it would say I need to know what the
current price is.
And I could have said, oh,
that's column E, It's labeled TLP.
Or the very first time I told it to do
the profit margin,
I could have given it good prompting and
I could have said create a column for
profit margin.
Assume that column ETLP is total list
price.
That's the current price.
Like if I take the time to tell it what
the data is, I'll be fine.
But you have to be careful.
Just we work with this data so often that
you probably have acronyms or things that
you just know you shouldn't assume
Copilot does, right?
It's trying to make sense out of these
based on these common sense names, right?
Again, if production cost was PC,
it would not have been successful.
I would have had to have said PC stands
for product production cost,
or that's my cost to manufacture whatever
it needs.
It doesn't have to be exact,
but it does need to be labeled in a
reasonable way.
Like for instance,
if I come in here and I say I'm going to
go over here because that's where I
wanted to build my chart,
and I'm going to say create a chart
showing total sales by bike type.
Now there's no column called bike type.
So is it going to be a problem?
Well, no,
because it doesn't have to be exact,
right?
It's smart enough to figure things out.
You can see I've got one called product
category and it's got types of bikes in
here, right?
Within context,
it's pretty obvious that that this
product category is my bike type, right?
And so it's going to use that and break
that down and and build my chart based on
that because it's reasonable to assume
that.
But again,
if it was called PC for product category
and the things inside were like R for
road bike, S for street bike,
M for mountain bike,
and between all those acronyms,
that's not intuitive at all.
It would have come back and said that I
don't know,
I don't have the data I need to do that.
And then again,
I would have had to have said,
create a chart with bike type,
use column something PC as product
category R stands for road bike and
stands for mountain.
And I would have had to have explained
the data, right.
So that's, that's the thing.
It's, it's smart, but you have to,
you have to, you know,
be aware of where your data is labeled.
I always tell people,
and this is especially true for Excel.
It's less so in other products because
we're typically Co creating or modifying
things in flight.
Excel is very specific to things like
it's very specific to the data and what
it's called and all of that good stuff,
right?
And so it,
it ran off and it created my chart here.
It's building it,
It's going to put it somewhere.
We'll see where it,
where it ends up dropping it.
But the point is you've got to make sure
that you're being clear or that the date
is clear, right?
And then fill in those gaps for it.
So we can do all kinds of stuff here in
flight, as you've seen, right?
I've told it what to do here.
I've told it to create things.
I can tell it to do conditional
formatting.
I can say things like highlight any
profit margin below 25% with red and
above with green, right?
That's all conditional formatting.
I don't know how to do conditional
formatting.
I'm not an Excel person,
but it knows how to do it.
So I know if I tell it to do that,
it's going to go through and it's going
to figure it out and it's going to set it
and, you know, get it working for me.
So you also can do high level things.
You can do things like clean up this data.
You can do things like help me understand
this data, right?
It doesn't have to be mechanical like
doing specific things to the Excel.
You can still ask those high level
questions and have it sort of help you
figure that stuff out.
You can see it figured it out and applied
conditional formatting.
It did what I asked it to do right?
And it's off to the races.
So you've you've got the ability to have
it sort of interact,
but it can also do those high level
answering of questions too,
just like you saw from the chat, right?
So like I've so far done manipulations of
the data,
but I can do things like looking at this
data set,
what would the impact of raising the
price by 5% of mountain bikes be on total
sales next quarter, right?
Like that's pretty advanced stuff.
It's gonna do it's best.
More than likely it's gonna start writing
some Python.
Maybe it's gonna try and fit a model.
But there's that's an example of a very
high sort of query against the data and
it'll show you exactly what it's doing.
It's saying.
All right, I need to clarify a few things.
Sales, looking at the customer data sheet,
notice that it only contains road bike
sales series.
There's no mountain bike sales recorded
in the current data set.
What total sales means?
Price elasticity.
Like it's telling me all the things I
need to think about and then it's asking
me how do I want to approach?
So you can work with the tool to go back
and forth with the data, right?
You can get in here and you can start
manipulating it.
You do have the ability up here to kind
of choose what you want to use depending
on what you're doing.
If the anthropic models have been opened
up in your organization, give these a try.
They're very powerful.
I find that I get really good results
using Opus 46.
You can do that or just leave it on auto.
But if you find that you're trying
something and it's not quite giving you
the results that you're looking for or
you're kind of dissatisfied with the
answer,
maybe it's too high level or it's not
detailed enough,
go ahead and and give it a try switching
it over to to like one of the Opus models
and you, you might get better results.
You can also do things like cleaning
things up right?
So like, I can come in here and I can say,
clean this spreadsheet up and give it a
more appealing look.
Like even something as simple as that.
It's now going to go through my data.
It's going to take a look at this and
it's actually going to like,
I've done this before.
It's going to come back and it's going to,
you know, make it much more clean,
attractive, readable,
break it out in different ways.
So it's going to manipulate the data.
So be careful with it, right?
Because it's it's going to change the way
that it looks and it feels put.
That is something that you can do as well.
Like if you've got a spreadsheet that's
kind of rough and dirty and you're going
to be presenting it to leadership or
something like that,
don't be afraid to give it sort of loose
guidance around like, hey,
make the spreadsheet look a little bit
better.
Clean it up.
You know,
especially if it's got hidden fields and
things like that,
you can really kind of help it have it
help you put together something that
looks pretty well structured.
OK, so that's the sort of third option,
right?
We talked about chat, very quick answers,
very straightforward,
can do it without a license.
We talked about agent, Excel agent,
we can do that without a license,
much more advanced.
Right now.
I'm working with the data.
I'm I'm giving it, you know, guidance.
I'm asking it to build things.
I'm asking questions about things,
but I'm not necessarily like in the
spreadsheet working with the data
directly and making modifications and
adding rows and things for that.
Now we're in a license land, right?
And you can see it cleaned it up,
made it look a little bit nicer,
definitely a little bit better looking
and gave me some slicers here at the top
like this is pretty good and it's still
working.
So this is now I'm in Excel and I'm
actually working with the spreadsheet.
Like I'm doing changes,
I'm modifying data, I'm adding data,
I'm creating new types of charts inside
the data.
I'm, you know, I could even tell it take,
take subsets of data and create a new,
a new spreadsheet in the workbook that
has a subset of data with three
visualizations to tell the,
the data story or AMP analysis.
And it would do all of that for me as
well.
So here I've got a lot of power inside
Excel to do what I need to do, right?
And that's because I've got that edit
with Copilot enabled and I'm in the app
itself.
So make sure those two conditions are the
case and you have to have a license and
then you're off to the races, right?
So lots of power there.
Now the last one that I want to show,
we have a little bit of time and then
I'll,
I'll move over and make sure that that
all the Q&A's have been covered.
The last thing that I want to show is not
necessarily in Excel.
It's another agent type of of thing.
So when you're in the chat,
and this is again,
this is for licensed people,
when you're in the chat,
we covered researcher.
I think in the in the core class or the
core that I did,
we covered researcher and analyst.
But because we're dealing with Excel and
we're dealing with sort of that data
mindset,
analyst is really important for this.
So analyst is an agent that's designed to
be a very deep data scientist, OK.
So it's not specific around I'm in Excel.
If I'm in Excel,
I'm using edit with copilot.
However,
if I have an Excel and I have that data
and I want to do some very deep analysis
of that data,
I want to create very rich visualizations,
right?
Because if I'm in Excel,
I can create visualizations,
I can create graphs and I can create
charts.
But you know, you're,
you're limited in terms of graphs and
charts and what you're producing, right?
You've got bar charts and line graphs and
stuff.
But there's some things that just can't
do that.
Well, right.
When I go into analyst,
it's sort of like now I've taken the
gloves off and I can, I can do anything.
This is a very rich data science minded
tool.
It's an agent designed to help you
understand, analyze, pull data apart,
things like that.
So whereas before I asked some questions
about the data and I got some answers,
they were pretty basic,
straightforward ones.
But now if I come in here and I say, hey,
analyze this data for any trends or
anything,
and then I'm going to attach that same E
bike inventory,
watch what it's going to do.
So the first thing it's going to do is
it's going to start performing like data
shaping and data science on it.
It's going to look for outliers.
It's going to look for fields that aren't
properly formatted, things where,
you know,
maybe maybe you accidentally had a text
field and it should have been a currency
field.
Like it's going to look through all of
those different scenarios,
like what kind of data is there?
What should it look like?
You can see it's it's already going in,
in writing code, it's doing its thing.
It's going to get really deep into
understanding the data,
understanding the relationships of the
data.
This is where you can ask those really,
really detailed questions.
If you want it to do like predictive
analytics on your data,
you want it to to be able to sort of draw
out conclusions that involve, you know,
fitting models and things like that.
All of that's possible inside Analyst,
right?
So you just start with with the basics
and give it the file.
You can give it multiple files, right?
So in that example where for instance,
I had those 8 files because I took one
giant file that had, you know,
8 million rows or 8 million cells and I
broke it into 81 million cell files.
I could Add all of those files into here
and say,
help me understand this data and how it
all interrelates to each other.
And now I'm looking at that full data set,
right?
That really large comprehensive data set,
because it's going to load it all into
data frames.
It's going to, at that point,
it's just using XLS a data source, right?
You're sort of leveraging,
you're coming out of Excel with the data,
you're bringing it into Analyst and it's
doing its own thing with the data.
At that point you sort of broke it out of
the Excel restrictions.
Into just whatever you need to do with
the data.
And you can see here now it's starting to
compile things and the building reports.
This is really good.
I see a lot of times people have like an
Excel file and they have to turn it into
like a PowerPoint or they want to take
data out of it and they want to like pull
that into something they can put in
PowerPoint.
I find analysts really helps with that,
right?
You can try and go into Excel and you
could say things like build a PowerPoint
with this,
or I can go into the the PowerPoint
wizard and we'll we'll talk about all of
that next session when we talk about
PowerPoint.
And I can say like using this Excel file
create, you know, a PowerPoint,
but I don't get great results with that
because it doesn't really know what's
important to me.
It doesn't know what I'm trying to do.
The data is still in a very Excel format.
Whereas if I,
if I run it through analysts and I work
with analysts to pull the story of what
I'm actually trying to tell in PowerPoint,
I can go back and forth with it much more
naturally and have it sort of create the
things that I want.
So like here you can see this is what it
sort of built with that initial trends
and things, right?
So it says,
here's the high level trends in the data,
here's the design consistency,
here's sales and inventory behavior,
which variables are correlated and how
much, right?
Moderate correlation here.
It generates a nice heat map for me based
on the correlation of variables,
breaks it down into customer data
correlation, even builds me some nice,
some nice charts here,
some scatter plots and things like that.
And then once I'm here,
I can still ask follow up questions.
So I could say I'm going to be building.
So you can even see it's already
mentioning a PowerPoint here.
I'm going to be building a PowerPoint to
show the impact of discounts on sales
numbers across the bike models and
categories.
Can you put some slide?
Actually, I would say,
can you create some insights with three
bullet points each that would easily work
in a PowerPoint deck,
Then generate one to two graphs or charts
to tell that narrative.
OK,
so rather than trying to like mess with
the stuff that's inside of Excel and try
and like I know Excel so I know I can get
this kind of thing out of it here,
I'm actually working with something that
does much better job of shaping the data
and pulling insights and things out.
So now I'm I'm going from, you know,
PowerPoints about telling a story.
It's about the narrative.
It's not about what's on the slides.
It's about what you're saying about
what's on the slides.
And so this gives me that much more
natural way to talk about what I'm trying
to do with the data,
what I'm trying to illustrate,
and then let it perform the equations,
the math, the understanding,
and pull all that together into a
narrative, right into what I'm looking.
Forgive me the talking points and the
bullet points that reinforce what I'm
trying to talk about and then generate
the charts that are appropriate for that
to reinforce that narrative.
So I'm kind of backing myself into what
I'm trying to get to, right?
I'm moving across the tools to get to the
right thing.
And so here it's kind of rather than have
it build the PowerPoint for me,
I find that doesn't work as well.
Instead,
it's easier to have it kind of talk about
what it's going to do because I find I
like to go back and forth with it, right?
It usually doesn't hit it out of the park
the first time.
Usually there's a here's what you got
right.
Here's what you could improve.
So here's the overall impact of discount
on sales.
Key insights discount on loans do not
reliably Dr.
units.
Average discount is here widely at the
model level.
Discount rates versus units sold have a
weak relationship.
You can see there's not really any kind
of reasonable relationship here.
So then I would probably say something
like, you know,
follow this up with how what does the
relationship look like?
Do we see any relationship between
discounts in any of the products?
Right.
So I'd probably dial back until I got
something that's hold a much cleaner
narrative because right now the narrative
is kind of like it doesn't matter.
It's all over the place.
So that's that's why I don't like saying
things like create that PowerPoint for me.
I'm going to,
I go back and forth with it until I kind
of dial in what I'm looking for and that
I've got what I need and I've got a
cohesive narrative.
Then I can tell it to take it to
PowerPoint and create that using all the
data and the images and, you know,
all these charts they created for me.
So just a different way to approach it.
All right, so we're at 14 minutes.
I want to kind of give that very clean
summary and I wanna make sure that that,
you know,
we understand because it is it is a a
kind of lots of tool story, right.
And so the key here is to think about it
on that spectrum, right?
What is it you're trying to accomplish?
What's what's the end goal?
Are you trying to understand data?
Are you trying to get started?
I have a CSV file or I have a bunch of
stuff and I'm trying to make it into
something that's more readable,
understandable, fused together.
Like what's the goal, right?
And if the goal is base understanding,
then you start at sort of step one and
you just live inside chat.
Then you ask questions about those files,
you ask questions about the Excel files,
and you dig in.
If it looks like you're going to need
more well reasoned answers,
if this is coming back and it's too
generic, it's too high level,
it's not getting, you know,
it's not spending enough time to really
get you a decent response or a good
answer.
Then you move to Step 2,
or you know that you start at Step 2.
But the point is this is that next step
up.
It's going to take longer.
It's going to give you much better
results.
But again, you're,
you're going into an agent that's
specific to its cell, right?
And 1 and 2 is where that pattern doesn't
change whether you have a license or not.
Now, once you get to this point,
if you do not have a license,
that's kind of where you've got,
if you need to go deeper,
then you need to actually open Excel.
Excel is for when I want to actually
start working with the data.
I want to manipulate it.
I want to ask more direct questions about
that Excel file.
Maybe I want to take the results of those
answers and create other spreadsheets
inside the workbook.
I want to create more charts.
All the stuff you do in Excel you can do.
Just make sure you've got that edit with
Copilot turned on, right?
And then dive in,
start asking it to do the things that you
normally would do with a,
with an Excel spreadsheet,
ask it to extrapolate things,
ask it to build dot, you know,
charts and things.
It can do all of that, right?
And then, of course,
the final step being I,
I want to do actual data science on this
stuff.
Like I have an excel file, but I really,
or I have multiple excel files, right,
because this one unlimited to what's open
in Excel.
Now, I've got lots of excels.
I've got a bunch of them that I want to
fuse all of this together and I want to
gain a deeper understanding.
Or I want to extrapolate things into the
future.
Or I want to tell a narrative out of this
data in a way that can be turned into a
convenient PowerPoint with graphics and
very custom.
And I know what what message I'm trying
to tell,
and this is the data that backs that up.
How do I get from here to here right?
That's a huge thing for both the skill
and a time set drain is I've got the data
that I know is useful and I know what
story I need to tell to get the message
across, but I just,
I don't know how to how to take that data
and manipulate it in such a way that the
story is clear and easy to understand and
straightforward.
OK,
this is the tool that can help you bridge
that.
Go into analysts, load up your data,
tell it what you're trying to accomplish,
and start working back and forth with it
to get to get that narrative and that
story and those graphics and things that
tell the clear message that the data is
trying to tell, right?
That's a great way to use analysts and to
sort of pull that together.
All right, so moving across,
that's the key finding,
finding the right tool for the,
for the task you're trying to do.
That way you're always getting the,
the best results that you can because you
know,
it's not one-size-fits-all for these
things.
You want to do various things.
Now you can always just jump right to
editing in Excel.
If you're going to do any work in Excel,
great.
If you've got a license, open the,
the the spreadsheet and start working
with it and asking the questions.
The only reason I I say don't start there
and start here is just because, you know,
if all you're asking about is just for
some summaries and some understandings
and some basics,
there's no need to find the file.
Open the file in Excel,
open the thing in Excel.
That's just more friction, right?
You could probably just ask a quick
question about it and get the answer you
want.
So it's not that it's we've got too many
tools to work from,
it's that you might find yourself in all
these different places and rather than
have you always going to one place and
doing things one way,
we want to surface all of that AI
capabilities and all of the different
ones.
But they do have natural surface areas.
If you're in a chat, right?
If you're in ChatGPT, for instance,
and you're trying to do work with Excel,
if you've done that,
you've noticed like it's not great.
It can answer questions,
they can do all kinds of stuff,
but if you start telling it to make a
bunch of modifications and make changes
and all this stuff,
this is not the right chatting,
is not the right interface.
You, you need the tool, you need it open,
you need Excel open so you can see your
tables and see your data and see the
columns and then ask natural questions
and watch the things being updated and
changed so that you can naturally go back
and forth between them.
So it's,
it's less about multiple tools for the
same thing and more about lots of
different ways to get things done in a
way that makes sense.
Right?
Use the right UI,
the right tool and the right back and
forth interface when you're trying to do
different things.
These are great tools for understanding
and creating.
These are great tools for, you know,
modifying and editing.
And this is for just very deep analysis.
This is for data science.
All right, so we've got 8 minutes left,
so I'm gonna check the, the Q&
A real quick.
Anything from my Microsoft colleagues
that I need to cover or anything that is
important enough that we should probably
call it out?
I can see there's lots and lots of
questions,
but it looks like there's lots and lots
of answers.
Anything we need to call out specifically
that's from a Microsoft peeps?
Yeah, No,
I think we have been filling all the
questions in the Q&
A for the most part.
OK, great.
I saw a hand come up.
We don't have the ability to come off of
mute because there's a ton of people
online.
If you throw it into Q&A,
we will get you an answer.
Absolutely.
All right.
Well then with that,
I wanted to make sure I built in time for
Q&A.
It looks like the Q&
A did get all handled.
I do see somebody just posted, so wow.
OK, so we do have these being recorded.
They will be made available after so that
you can kind of go back in and see what I
did and go through that.
We're also grabbing the Q&A's.
We make sure that if something didn't get
answered or didn't get answered detailed
enough, we will.
We will do the research,
get you an answer and get that out.
So all this material will be made
available to you.
And from there,
I believe our next session coming up is
either PowerPoint.
We have a PowerPoint 1 coming up.
I think we have a Teams and Outlook 1
coming up.
So we have a bunch of deep dives into the
tools themselves still on the horizon
that we haven't covered.
So probably not the last time I'll see
everybody,
but I appreciate you spending the time
with me.
Hopefully you got a deeper understanding
of all the tools and toolkit that are
available to you to work with Excel and
get in there and try it.
You know,
don't be afraid What I will tell you as
as just a, a,
a last minute thing is if you are working
inside of here,
just remember you still have that undo
button, right?
Like if you're going to have it do things
and you're going to ask it to do things
like don't be afraid to do that.
If it does something and you don't like
what it does or it messes it up, you know,
feel free to come in here and,
and just tell it undo, right?
If if I go in and I select something and
I tell it to make a change to this and it
makes a,
a change to a certain field or something
like that,
I can always hit the undo button If I,
if I don't like what it puts in,
or I can always say, you know,
that's good, but I would prefer this.
Or, you know, maybe I,
I don't do not bold the production cost,
right?
Like, I don't,
I don't know why that particular one is
bolded when when all the other ones
aren't and you only some of them are bold
and some of them aren't.
That was probably there as an artifact
from before.
I can just tell it what I need it to do
to clean it right.
And then if it does that right,
and then it cleans it and I decided maybe
there was a reason it was bolded or
whatever,
just hit the undo button right and go
right back to where I was.
So don't be afraid to get in there and
play.
You can always undo if it's a really,
really important one and you're nervous
going in with Copilot,
just make a copy of it.
I've done that before just because I know
I'm going to go in and play and do some
really possibly destructive things to the
data because I want to see what it's
capable of doing.
Just make a copy.
But again, it,
it shouldn't matter because once it does
it, I always have the,
the ability to just say, I,
I didn't like that, undo that, right,
And then go back to where I was.
So don't be, don't be afraid to play.
All right, well,
thanks everybody for your time.
I'll give you 5 minutes of your day back.
And I look forward to seeing everybody in
our next session as we dig into all the
various tools across the board.
So thanks very much.
Appreciate it.
Thanks a lot and see you and thanks Derek.